On side two, the Cinderella story of this indomitable, that's an interesting word, I-N-D-O-M-I-N-A-B-L-A, is that a correct word?
Or is it, it should be indomitable, shouldn't it?
Indomitable, irrepressible, sex world, right?
Merry widow belly dancer, philanthropist, millionaires, iconosaur, dot, dot, dot, dot, four dots, all women.
I don't think that's a good word.
I don't know, it's not, it should be a T in there.
Tula says, that indomitable is spelled I-N-D-O-M-I-N-A-B-L-E.
It should be indomitable.
Tula says, I wrote it because I aspire to inspire before I expire.
And then it's signed, July 1975, with love to Dr. Roberts from Tula.
And there are four photographs.
You shouldn't put that on there.
I won't put that on there.
I won't put that on there, okay?
This is wonderful.
She and Ed Henry came down here.
in between.
We were developing it, but we won the rest of the stuff we had.
Jeez.
But look at the picture.
They came down here, and she was made, she, no, she was made an honorary member of 580 Kappa.
She was made?
And we had a dinner, I think.
Isn't this wonderful?
She went to the logical group of faculty wives, which my wife had done this time.
I tell you, I was one of the funniest goddamn reports that I ever heard of my wife.
I didn't know that.
Well, there are four pictures of Tula here, one sitting in front of a really impressive... Well, that looks like a couple of Picassos, doesn't it, huh?
What?
I said, the paintings here are unbelievable.
Oh, my God.
She's got those paintings behind her.
Yeah, look at those paintings.
Right.
Yeah.
And, of course, an inset.
There she is as a belly dancer with a massive bust.
And here she is lying on her back in costume.
You can't recognize who they are except that one.
Well, that's pretty obvious, yeah.
Oh, yeah, the whole house was walled and covered with things.
Yeah.
That's great.
Thanks for showing it to me.
That's because you're going to send me that.
I'm going to send you lots of stuff, and I'll do it.
And the title of this book, The Strange Triangle of GBS.
She wrote this, which we just crashed.
She wrote this?
Yeah.
How did she know about it?
Did she pretend to be a scholar?
Oh, yeah, she pretended to be.
She published it.
Bruce Humphreys, 1956.
I would say it's privately published.
It's a fancy press stuff, yeah.
In fact, look at the picture of her in the back.
Was he much older than her?
Much.
Would you say that she was as much of an acquisition as the paintings and the manuscripts for him?
She said she was.
Does she have anything to do with the purchase of the stuff?
I don't know.
That's my notebook.
I think so.
Tell me when you want me to go, by the way.
That's all right.
I'll take my wife off a little ride this afternoon, enjoy a little Texas before we go home tomorrow.
Oh, good.
We'll do that.
Drive out west.
The hill country is lovely.
Is that right?
That's nice place.
And that's where Austin's expanding in that direction, where all the new money is, those big houses.
This is where the old money is except us.
Let's talk just a bit about the future.
It's not static.
The 20th century has two decades to go.
Well, yes.
What I think they need to do is to continue buying materials as a supplement, what they have.
I really think they ought to try to concentrate and complete the 20th century.
And then it will be a great monument, won't it?
Yeah.
We had programs.
We set up a buying program.
which I think, immediately after I retired, and it was not continued, in which we had a certain number of writers, and we had arrangements of booksellers to send us their first editions as soon as they were published.
And every book that was published in there, some of them got them and published their prices.
And that arrangement with Andrews Graham, for example, he had a big cardboard box,
And every time he got a little magazine or a little odd pamphlet or something like that, he'd throw one up over there.
And then when he'd get full, he'd buy it from him.
Tom has a short list.
It's not so short.
A list of 500 or 800 odd authors that they're buying regularly.
Is this something that you people started?
Yeah, I started a long time ago.
And I said, can I have a copy of that?
And he smiled.
He said, no.
He said, every rare book dealer in America would like a copy of this list.
And he's right.
Well, it's me left.
I wonder, you know, can you have some bookseller helping you?
You know, I think it's awfully hard to do it yourself.
You know, what it was was a big computer printout, and they had the numbers, you know, which was very interesting.
Yeah, it was good.
They got all kinds of computers, you see.
For years, I tried to get a grant to put all of George Marshall's letters on the computer, annotated.
But in that day, the computer was big, you know, and it was hard.
Well, I never got the money.
But nowadays, they've got that place full of little Matt Crosse's on their right mind.
I talked to a pleasant young woman.
I think Kathy Bigger was on.
No, Bigger.
Bigger, yeah.
Yeah, you're right.
But she's doing all her computer stuff.
And that's interesting.
So they're getting there.
It's going to take time.
Oh, it is.
Oh, yeah.
They're putting everything on computer now.
I've got a modem over here.
I can call out the library and I can look at everything I want to.
It's in that computer.
One of the raps on Texas in the early days, and again, was that one of the raps, the criticisms, was that they bought, quote, indiscriminately, that the tower was filled with things they didn't even know was in there.
Is that a Justify or a Justify?
Well, for a time we had, we were buying things and they were stored almost everywhere.
And then we got a big building out there.
And then finally got this new building.
Most of the actual manuscript material and the extremely valuable books were kept in the main building.
Tower?
Yeah.
No, the old Rare Books Library used to be
It's located where the president's office is now, which is on the fourth floor of the main building.
That's the tower building.
But the fourth floor is on the front, looking down toward the capitol.
That's where it was.
That whole top floor there was the dump of all the rebels.
And it was run by a lady that entered Fanny Radford for years, who, I suppose, didn't remember Thomas A. Wise.
He's part of my book.
Good.
Well, she wrote a book about wise forgeries in existence, which are valuable now in the original, because they're forging the forgeries sometimes.
There's quite a little controversy, because Carter really wanted to see some of those letters, and Texans wouldn't look at it.
Forsheimer wouldn't look at it.
I guess Forsheimer had some letters that came afterwards.
that ultimately came here.
And this woman actually did a little monograph, I think.
She did the book, but there was a monograph.
I have the book.
You don't have to do it.
Yeah, what she did was very firmly on with Edmund Goss.
That's right.
Collaborated in the House of Lords, which the British always hated it for, but she was quite spotty.
Very much of a steel magnolia.
But anyway, to go back on track there about
the so-called, the alleged purported indiscriminate people.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
But actually, it wasn't really indiscriminate.
Divine wasn't indiscriminate.
It was just coming in front of me.
Some of the things used to horrify me, and I told a question, much as possible, like we had a fire once in the tower.
And when I first came down, I wanted to see one of his tapes, and then we found out, and I had to tell him.
I'm sorry.
I bet he didn't pull his stuff out, though, either.
Oh, no, he didn't.
He was a good one.
So, the answer to that is no.
You had a window... The buying wasn't indiscriminate, and we had them pretty well cared for.
That is really part of the jealousy of the whole thing, really.
I thought you were going to talk about raps like government interference with a university.
We've had that kind of thing.
And that's what you say as well?
Well, no, I wouldn't say it's always groundless, but I wouldn't say it's always hard as much.
Is there anything I haven't covered?
Well, you do know the old history, don't you?
We have the one library.
That's right.
In 1918, I think.
Yeah, who bought it?
Major Newfield.
Right.
C.S.A.
He had a little house down there on the corner.
Yeah, that house, all that iron work they found, selling cows and running back.
He gave a lot of money.
He did some nice things.
Yeah, he did a lot of things.
There were two men.
We did a lot at the University.
One of them was George W. Bracken, who was one of those major—Livingville, I think.
Littlefield was an officer in the Confederate Army, and Bracken was just an officer in the Indian Army, and they were extremely jealous of each other.
And each one wanted to do more for the University than the other one.
About when is this now?
Must be the early part of the 70s.
70s, 80s, and last year.
Well, they've always founded the 70s, 80s, 90s, and the first decade of the century.
Yeah, quite a long time ago.
Brackenridge left him a lot of land out here.
It's called Brackenridge right now.
And he wanted him to move the university out there, which they really shouldn't have done, because, you know, they're not paying much money now through the teeth to get even the houses over around East Austin.
And Littlefield gave them that library and all this money and everything else but fun for Southern history, on the proviso that if they ever moved the university, it all went back.
He didn't want to move that and bring them back to the property.
Absolutely marvelous situation here.
I don't know whether they could break that or not.
Nobody would pay much attention to it.
Well, they can hardly move now.
They can hardly move now unless somebody raises the price of oil considerably.
So, you're justly proud of your... Yeah.
You are justly proud, I would hope, I would imagine, of your association over the years with the agency.
Oh, absolutely.
It would have been difficult to find a job.
Everyone would want more, I think.
Another rap, and I don't know if it's much of a rap, but that in the purchases you wound up with 40-odd copies of Ulysses, first editions.
A lot more than that.
We bought everyone we could find.
No, was that intentional?
Yeah, it was intentional.
More than 40?
What are they doing with the Shakespeare movies?
What do they do with them?
Well, they collate them to get the perfect copy.
Exactly.
What are they going to do with Ulysses?
They're still doing it.
They haven't finished it yet.
They're doing it here?
No.
I'll have to come here to do part of it.
But that was the notion that Ulysses was an important book, which I said, and that they're going to work on it.
And they have.
As a matter of fact, the professor here wrote a critique of that.
There was supposed to be a critical edition of it.
I've forgotten.
I'm a little out of touch.
Oh, there was, but it's already been discredited.
Yeah, that's right.
Well, the professor here wrote about discredited.
Okay, that's been discredited.
And so were most of his large things working on that, too, I imagine.
But that was the theory that we have these, and you have all of them, yeah.
And there are all kinds of differences in that, you see.
They kept changing it.
Well, there were 500 errata, I think, in the first printing.
Plus, it was being done by French compositors who couldn't read anything.
People who couldn't come out and couldn't read anything.
And so you have quite a few lady chattels.
That was done, not too many.
18 or something, I don't know.
I'll tell them they could try mine if they wanted to.
And there's no reason why they shouldn't, so some of those now.
However, we do have multiple copies of most of Lawrence's books, like 14 of some.
But, you know, examine all of those when I do the bibliography.
And you have to see all those books.
You really ought to see every one in existence.
if you're going to write a bibliography, if you're really going to describe what happens to it in the process of painting.
And you're speaking as a bibliographer now.
Yeah.
So you're speaking with some authority.
Well, you see, you have to see those.
And they've been immensely valuable.
They have multiple copies of books.
I mean, that is a deliberate thing.
In other words, you don't have to do it with some sense of balance, however.
25 copies of every book published in the 20th century.
But some of the more important books, the more important writers, it may be potentially important.
Would it be worth my while to talk to Deckard Turner, I think, if I can find him?
He's kind of been recluse with me now.
I don't know.
You might talk to him.
I suppose I kind of am sorry for the man.
He's a little unstable, I think.
They asked me when he got the job, and as far as I knew, he was fine.
He had charge of the Golden Club visit here, and I collaborated with him and talked with him about that, and we made arrangements.
I thought he was very good.
He was at the Broadway Library at SMU, which has a very good collection of cannabia, which is mostly religiously, or a lot of it is, but
He likes all the books, but he likes museum books, the Vikings and things.
And I don't think he's really a scholar in that sense.
And he had a very slight regard for 20th century material.
Isn't he the one who coined the phrase, the Ransom Syndrome?
I don't know.
But he did, he did a phrase.
He did some very, very silly things.
I mean, he... He even wrote about them on his HRC notes.
Oh, I know.
That was the silliest thing on earth.
You don't know how for 25 years I struggled to keep this place from appearing like a foolish place in the press.
I mean, there was a screen between Ransom and everybody else in the public.
And that guy came out in that press room.
You know, he said...
I know a man who had the biggest Ted Hughes collection in existence, and he wrote about it today.
And he came and tried to sell it to Decker.
And Decker just threw it on his ear.
And he wrote one of his things about it, about how this man came in and said, I'm going to get married, and I need to buy a house, and you can have this collection for all the... So he embarrassed him.
embarrassed everybody, and Ted Hughes became the boy lawyer.
You know.
I mean, it would have been a perfect thing to add to this.
Isn't that something?
You see?
So, he abruptly cut off and insulted almost all of them.
And, I don't know, you can't do this without both people.
I mean, Brother Miller, for example, none of
I mean, that doesn't mean you have to think they're God and do everything they say, but you have to work through those people.
They know things and find things, particularly if you're adding chunks.
Were you kind of the chief scout?
Were you kind of the chief scout for things?
Well, I don't want to partially say that.
Did you kind of suggest to Dr. Ransom areas that you made your...
probes that you had located?
Oh, yeah.
Usually, I'd just let Luke Alvin pay for it.
And say it's there, right?
Yeah.
But you would indicate to Lou that you'd like it.
Oh, yeah.
Lou would buy it, and then, sure.
And then what, he'd deal with ransom?
Well, yeah.
Well, a lot of times, too, I just, I got the stuff and had him send it here and just had Lou pay for it, you know.
He didn't know.
He just paid for it in short as 10%.
Isn't that wonderful?
Yeah.
Oh, it was very useful.
I'm going to send you a few things that I've written to give you an idea.
Normally I do that.
I write you a letter, but I just called you this week, and so it was kind of put together rather hastily.
But I will send you a copy of Tom's... Tom's machine works.
And a few other things, and we'll keep in touch.
And if you don't mind, I'll call you if I have any other questions.
And you mentioned that you'd inscribe this for me.
Oh.
That would be awfully nice if you did that.
I'm going to shut off the machine now, okay?
Dr. Robert's a collector here.
Anyway, I bought him a bookshop in Santa Fe.
I don't know, maybe.
$10 or something.
$5 was coming.
And I showed it to Dobie.
He recognized his name.
Isn't that something?
He'd given it to her.
So he wrote,
Look at that!
So this is now to you?
Yeah, that's right.
On the title, on the dedication page, dear, and I won't read the whole thing, but it's a very long... The past sometimes adds to the interest of a copy of a book, and he knew that woman, and he said, I'll tell you about this, have to part with a book that you love.
So does he talk about this book?
Yeah.
He said that.
This first edition is that of Ruth Waltham Barber.
Being arcade, yeah.
In the back of the frontiers, the very delightful Cavalleros, especially delighted.
Delightful on Burroughs came out in 1931.
Yeah.
According to the children, it was published, though.
It was copyrighted in 1930.
I came to know her at Ruth Cavalleros.
I liked her very much.
When it was republished, her name was shortened to Ruth Waltham.
I was curious.
L-U-G-H-L-A-N, right.
Yeah, you got her a copy of Carnot's children.
Now I know you found it in Santa Fe, where she lives.
So, as neighbor to the boroughs out there, good people, let's go back and find her.
It's not too bad to die, but to become indifferent to a book once cherished, or to need a little money is too bad.
Yeah.
When did he sign?
Did he date that by the way?
1963.
That's wonderful.
That's, you know, this book has a whole new life.
Austin, 15 October 1963.
Isn't that wonderful?
That's quite interesting.
I'm keeping all of this stuff.
And sometimes I'm fixing things.
This or that.
a distant relative to mine, the wife of this guy who was a ranger.
A woman's reminiscences of six years in camp with the picture.
She stayed with me in camp, a place where I was born and raised, actually.
Where is that?
Oh, about 130 miles west of the area.
And I think this is the picture of the picture.
And this is D.W.
Roberts.
And this is her account of it, of all the experience that I had.
But anyway, this is a kind of thing I'm putting together in people.
I'm very proud, and one of my cases one.
So, that's great.
Yeah, I'm doing great.
Tom Lee is another one of the man that has a marvelous... He's a painter and writer.
You see the Tom Lee collection?
You didn't see his paintings, you know.
But that's okay.
Were you a collector before you became an educator?
Well, not much.
This is something that developed in— I've got to show you, Tom Lee.
This is all at Texas Workplace on the location.
But I have to show you that book that comes down.
I never can find anything.
There are two copies of that book that comes down.
This is awfully nice.
You've got to go, yeah, you've got to go ask your wife soon.
Oh, yeah, I told you that one, but it's dirty, but that's not, that's on my own track.
Oh, here it is.
No, this is Battle Stations.
He was a combat artist.
Oh, that's kind of interesting.
Yeah, it is nice.
This is a, you know, of his, uh, he did a lot of paintings over there.
World War II?
Yeah, World War II.
This, uh, in Gorda Canal, uh, campaign.
Tom Lee, L.E.A., as I was calling that.
But his Western painting was a great song.
He did this History of the King Ranch.
Kathleen did a book of his paintings.
She was really nice.
Kathleen's a wonderful show.
She's really nice.
She was so pleased when I knew her book.
She was really nice.
Which book was it?
The Beverly Gifted one?
Oh, yeah.
Isn't that nice?
In fact, I'm going to send it to her and ask her to describe it for me.
In fact, I wrote about it.
I did a review of it.